#labels Phase-Design,Phase-Requirements,Phase-Implementation,Featured
All in One Taxi Application For Android Mobile Device By *William Mac & Wai Yan Cheung*

= Project Overview =

The All in One Taxi Application is an open source android mobile device application.  This application is targeted for both taxi drivers and taxi passengers.  It is for all people regardless of age, sex, and race.  The user interface of this application is written in English.  This application will extend to support other languages such as Chinese and Spanish.<br />

"All in One Taxi" is the project name of this application.  The formal name of this droid application is called "Taxi Best".  Why do we call it "Taxi Best"?  The reason that we call it "Taxi Best" is that this taxi application offers 4 distinctive features which make up the word "BEST".  "BEST" is broken down into the following 4 parts:

  * B stands for Booking.  
    ** This means that users can make a taxi reservation online 24/7 with the touch of a few taps or buttons. 

  * E stands for Extra.
    ** This means that users can obtain information related to the taxi ride.
    ** The passengers can figure out the estimate distance and fare of the taxi ride before the journey begins.
    ** The passengers can find out the driver who will be picking up the passengers and when the estimate time that the cab will be arriving at the pickup location.
    ** The passengers can also get an SMS message alert when the cab has arrived at the pickup location.
    ** The drivers can obtain information about the passengers such us the pickup location, the drop off location, and how many passengers.

  * S stands for Sharing.
    ** This means that the app will include a ride share feature which could be some random drivers that wanted to go from destination A to a destination B and that the driver wanted to split the gas with the other person. Let's say I am driving to Market street to go to work, and I happen to find somebody around the neighborhood that is going to downtown too, so I contact the other person and ask them if he/she might want a ride there too and we will split the gas.

  * T stands for Tracking.
    ** This means that the application will include a GPS tracking mechanism that can track the location of the passengers or the drivers at any particular point in time.
    ** The passengers can find taxis based on their current GPS location.
    ** The passengers track the arrival of their taxi ride on the mobile device.

The purpose for building this "Taxi Best" mobile application is to give passengers the flexibility to reserve a taxi ride on a fly with the push of a button without any hassle to wait for Taxi dispatched operators to speak to them to make the taxi ride reservation.  This will surely free up the passengers a lot of time so that they can do other things while waiting for their ride.  This application will also allow the passengers to track the status of their taxi ride at any point in time and provide the passengers the option to cancel the taxi ride if they feel the taxi ride is taking too long to arrive.  This application would also be very helpful for the drivers because it will allow the drivers to interact with the passengers to provide passengers live update of the request ride.  For example, if the drivers are experiencing traffic jam, they can send SMS alert inside this app to the passengers to inform them the ride delay due to traffic congestion.  This application will come in handy for the drivers who want to scout for prospective passengers in any nearby neighborhood to make some few quick bucks.

This application will also solve of the problems that I notice when I take a taxi ride.  When the taxi cab arrived at my house, I usually did not notice that my ride was here in front of my house.  Thus, constantly, I have to go out to the window to check to see if my ride was here or not.  With this "Taxi Best" mobile app, I will be able to get an update at any point in time the status of my ride (where my assigned driver is currently located.), so I will be able to plan ahead to wait for my ride outside of my house when it is arrived.  I also notice that some people want to know how much they spend on the taxi ride.  Another good thing about this application, it will allow users to find some other people who want to go to the similar location to share some travel costs with.
     
This application is provided "as is" without any warranty of any kind.  There is no technical support in using this program.  This application will come with a mini basic user guide showing you how to install and use the application.  You are welcome to modify the source code of this application in any form or shape.  There is a hand-drawn mockup screen showing the design and flow of this application.

This application is written for android device users.

Additional project documentations, the user interface mockup diagram, the user guides are all available in the download section which can be found in the following URL:

[http://code.google.com/p/all-in-one-taxi/downloads/list]

Currently, only the user interface mockup diagram is available.

= Use Cases =

The *Taxi Best* application will start out with the initial screen where the users can choose either to log in as *Taxi Driver* or *Taxi Passenger*

*Passenger Screen

The passenger is able to enter their current and destination address. With the address, the passenger could either find a driver or look up the cab directory. The user is able to know the estimate time, cost, miles for the whole trip. The passenger is able to send request/call cab/call cab company for a pick up . The passenger would receive a confirmation receipt after the request has been made. 

To start out, the application will ask you to type in the pickup address and the drop off address.  It will then take you to the search result screen where it will show you a listing of all nearby taxi cab companies and/or taxi drivers.  You can click on any taxi cab company or driver to view the taxi info.  The taxi info screen will provide you the  a status screen that will alert you once your ride is dispatched 

*Taxi Driver Screen

The Taxi driver is able to log in and find the address of nearby passenger or he/she could open request page where it has a list of passengers requests. The request page should contain name of the passenger, a accept button to accept the request, a deny button to deny the request, a info button where it display address of where the passenger is at, address of where the passenger is going to, the phone no of the passenger.

*Ride Share Screen

A ride share user is able to see posting of request from nearby. The posting should include a description, current and destination address, price and phone number. Also Users are able to post requests. 